hey this is pressure Hawker the
Holderness family posted this math
problem for first grade students to
their Facebook page it is causing
confusion and currently being covered by
major news outlets in this video I want
to explain what many people believe to
be the correct answer
let me first read the problem the
picture shows some letters that are
arranged in a pattern use the key to
find the missing letter the key is a
conversion from letters to numerical
values a is equal to five
B is equal to six C is equal to seven
and so on where each letter is equal to
the next number going all the way to Z
equaling 30 the picture is a three by
three grid that only involves the four
corner squares and the center square in
the first row the two corner squares are
question mark and G the second row is
the center square B and the third row is
the corner squares s and P what is the
value of the question mark give it a try
and now let me explain what many people
believe to be the correct answer
well first convert the letters to
numerical values G is equal to 11 B is
equal to 6 s is equal to 23 and P is
equal to 20 what could the pattern be
many people see the pattern that the
numbers in the diagonal entries should
have the same numerical sum this would
lead to the equation 11 plus 6 plus 23
would be equal to question mark plus 6
plus 20 this means that 40 would be
equal to question mark plus 26 and
therefore question mark would be equal
to 14 and that converts back into the
alphabetical value of J so according to
this pattern the question mark should be
equal to J this is the main pattern that
I saw and many people saw do you see any
other patterns what do you think the
answer should be thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions that you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at pressure
Locker and if you liked this video
please check out my books there are
links in the video description